---
author: Vidisha Jitani
date: 2018-06-12
linktitle: Awesomeness
next: /tutorials/github-pages-blog
prev: /tutorials/automated-deployments
title: How to create your own website in just half an   hour?
weight: 10
authorAvatar: hugo-logo.png
image: img/hugo-netlify.png
published: true
---
## Why should you start blogging?

This world is full of amazing details and concepts. We either fail to acknowledge them or tend to forget them. Software engineering itself contains so many minute yet beautiful details. So, one fine day I decided to start jotting down my experiences with the coding world. And that's how I took my first step towards _the blogging journey_. 

_**But, Expectation Vs Reality**_

For the past few years I've been seeing an exponential rise in the number of bloggers. So, naturally I thought setting up a blog should be a cakewalk. But, suddenly I found myself deluged in the swarm of countless options. I had to go through so many articles and had to try so many options until I finally boiled down to the ideal solution. _So this article might save you a few weeks._

**_One size doesn't fit all._**

First of all, one needs to figure out their exact requirements. Since, I wanted a very basic site having only blogs so I was fine with a static site. **_My main criteria was to invest in as less time, effort and money as possible._** I was pretty sure somewhere somebody might have made my work really very very easy. So, I started on the jounery to find that philospher's stone. But Alas! This searching took up so much of my time. Hopefully after reading this you might not have to go through the same ordeal.  

## And The Quest Begins!

Nowadays, one of the most popular blogging platform is obviously - [Medium](https://medium.com/). _Who creates their own website when you have Medium, duh huh??_ Yep, agreed! But, Medium is not my website. _Who doesn't like a website with their name in the domain?_ _Who doesn't like to flaunt that he is the creator of a site?_ If we can pay thousands of rupees to get our name engraved on a hoodie or on a stupid cup, we can atleast afford to give 400 INR to [GoDaddy](https://in.godaddy.com/) for a narcissist domain name. Whatsay??  


I know someone might say whats their to search about it? _Just [Wordpress](https://wordpress.com/) and chill!_ Umm.. I tried and it failed me :( The site was not at all intuitive (atleast the free version was not). For supporting custom domains you **_must pay_**. For getting a slightly usable theme you _**will pay**_. For getting any plugin you **_should pay_**. And obviously, **_I didn't pay_**!


With knowledge comes great power. Similarly, getting a little knowledge of version control system and repositories opens up a lot of options. One should just know how to FORK big people's repo! There exists a lot of frameworks and repositories which contains the whole pre created sites. One just need to add a configuration file specifying their details like name and social handles and TADA!! Your site is ready. Commenting support and analytics support is also just a line away. I tried [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) and [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/). **_And hands down, Hugo won._** Be it setting up a theme or customising the site or compiling the site - Hugo was comparitely more intuitive and fast. 


The only thing remaining in my quest for my own website, was a free host server to deploy my site. And then [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) happened!! This is by far the most simplified solution to a complex problem have ever seen in software engineering. **_Literally, everything in Netlify is just a click away._** In just one click, your site is on secure protocol. In just another click, you can add your repo, point it to your custom domain, build the site and deploy it. And the best part is yet to come - the auto publishing feature. _It will automatically detect the change and will make it live in a minute. Mind=Blown._ And all this, absolutely free.

This combination of Hugo and Netlify has the power to make that dream of yours a reality in just half an hour. Might sound like a paid advertisement but its not. It took me 2 weeks to figure this out. Do let me know in case you know of a more faster, cheaper and easier approach.
