---
author: Vidisha Jitani
date: 2018-06-22
linktitle: Awesomeness
title: Computer, Somebody's magic
weight: 10
image: img/cs-pic.jpg
published: true
---

Once upon a time, trade started flourishing.. and people wanted to see some performance metrics. And oops! you have to do all the calculations via fingers or with stones or on paper. And so Somebody developed _Abacus_ for easing out their counting work. 

But people needed an all-purpose calculator. So, Somebody converted all the multiplication problems to addition problems, making one less problem to solve. But the major leap came in the age of Industrial Revolution. Somebody just observed a looming machine which used to use _punched cards_ for altering the patterns of the weave. And this gave him such an inspiration to create something that will revolutionise the whole computing world. Guess what?!

**Punched Cards == On-Off == Bits**

He went on to invent an _analytical engine_ by using the punched cards. A punched card has two states - a hole OR no hole. Sounds familiar, right? With the technological advancements, it was replaced with electro-magnetic concept of _mechanical relays_, which were further packaged into more manageable _vacuum tubes_, which were further repackaged into _transistors_. Combination of transistors unleashed the power of _Logic Gates_. Yep, the truth table ones! Somebody used these like lego blocks to create much more complex and magical computing architectures.

**And the GATES of Heaven opened up!**

Somebody combined these gates magically in such a way, that it created something that can solve addition problems. Check out _Full Adder circuit_! This became the basis of _Arithmetic Logical Unit (ALU)_ which was responsible for handling all the calculations and other logical operations.

These gates with feedback concept created the _Latches_. These latches could maintain there output value, inspite of any given input value. Yay!! Somebody just unleashed the Storage logic! Now, a latch can save only 1 bit. But, people needed lots and lots of bits to be saved. So, these latches were bundled to create bigger units. Few got packaged in a way that all the bits could be accessed asap (_primary memory_). Some packaging required lots of traversing to reach that particular bit (_secondary memory_). 


**But who will get the job done?**

People wanted something that can understand all of their instructions and can get the job done by these Storage and ALU units. So, Somebody created a _Control Unit (CU)_ by their very own lego blocks, which can FETCH the commands(OPCODES), can DECODE them and can get them EXECUTED as well. 


**CU + ALU = CPU**

Though the basic computer was ready, but still people weren't able to put it in into their pockets. Somebody set on a journery to keep compacting the CPU in such a manner that it could be packed into a chip of silicon called _Integrated circuit_. Silicon Valley, remember?! These microprocessors became the reason behind people's sleek computers, pocket sized phones, driverless cars, etc. And thus Somebody kept fixing all the problems, and everyone lived happily ever after... 


This journey might sound simple, but it contains centuries of efforts by a great number of  **_Somebodies_**. This is to remind that this computer journey has come a long way and still has a long road ahead. This is a shout out to all those engineers who find inspiration in the smallest of things, create things that nobody could have imagined and keep solving all the problems in the world. Above all, they create magic and make this world a better place to live.
